/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk-9.0.1.jdk/Contents/Home/bin/java "-javaagent:/Applications/IntelliJ IDEA CE.app/Contents/lib/idea_rt.jar=49661:/Applications/IntelliJ IDEA CE.app/Contents/bin" -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 -classpath "/Users/xinyi.babs/github/web spider/out/production/web spider" spider.Main

















How to Introduce Your Indoorsy Friend to the Outdoors | REI Co-op Journal





















































































































         -->



     and  tags, as close as possible to the opening tag.
    Creation Date: 07/02/2015
    -->




























                        Shop REI




                        REI Outlet




                    	Used Gear




                        REI Adventures




                        Classes &amp; Events




                        Expert Advice




                        Co-op Journal




                        Get Outside












				CO-OP JOURNAL









					Search


					Cancel






					Stores





					Menu









						Stores





						Staff Login


									 -->

					Close Menu






						CO-OP JOURNAL




						Activity





									Camping




									Hiking




									Climbing




									Cycling




									Paddling




									Running




									Snowsports




									Travel




									All







						Gear





									Gear Guides




									New Products




									Gear Reviews




									Packing Lists




									All




									10 Best Experience Gifts for Outdoorsy Types




									2018's Best Gifts for Camping and Hiking Enthusiasts




									The 10 Best Gifts for Travel Lovers







						Video &#038; Podcasts





									Co-op Cinema




									Recipes




									Trailheads




									Take It From Me




									Wild Ideas Worth Living




									All




									REI Presents: Safe Haven







						How To





									Tips




									Ask an Expert




									DIY




									Recipes




									All







						Local





									Pacific West




									Mountain West




									South




									Midwest




									Northeast




									International




									All




									Atlanta




									Chicago




									North Carolina







						Impact





									Public Lands




									Philanthropy




									Sustainability




									Equality




									All







						About





									Contact




									REI News




									Staff Login




















		HomeCampHow to Introduce Your Indoorsy Friend to the OutdoorsRate this story:Jennifer Davis-Flynn//































								A campfire, toasted s’mores and great conversation on a summer night under the stars might sound like an ideal way to hang with your friends—until you realize that you don’t have a single pal who would join you for a day hike, let alone an overnight in the woods.
Camper, we have a problem. Here are some ways to introduce your “indoorsy” friend to the great outdoors and remain best buds.
Extend an Invitation
Sometimes it’s as easy as calling up a friend and saying “Let’s go on a short hike this weekend.” Tell him or her why you think they might enjoy the scenery, fresh air, and time away from the laptop and smartphone. If you encounter reluctance, lead with an offer to do something that he or she enjoys, like shooting pool or listening to live jazz. After all, relationships require compromises and our good friends help us grow and expand our horizons.
Think Small
Don’t attempt too much too soon. You may be game for a 20-mile bike ride or steep four-hour hike, but keep it short and sweet for your novice buddy—an hour or less. Afterwards, celebrate your accomplishment by treating your friend to a coffee or beer. Remember to start gently; no brutal inclines or tricky terrain.
Take the Lead
If, for example, you’d like to take your friend kayaking, it should be your responsibility to plan everything: the time, place and necessary gear to pack. Advise your friend on how to dress. Nothing ruins a day faster than being too cold, too hot or too wet. You take care of all the details to make it as easy and painless as possible. For more complex activities like kayaking, mountain biking or cross-country skiing, give basic, minimal instruction, and keep it flat: flat water, flat trail, flat track. And bring tasty snacks.
Keep Pace with Your Friend
Let your friend set the pace for how fast you go, and joyfully follow suit. This is not the time to beat your Strava record. Go slow and steady and carry on a conversation (that’s why you invited a buddy in the first place). Keep in mind that your friend might not have the same level of fitness as you. Be positive and encouraging, and be sure to take several breaks for water.
Keep it Up
Only after you take a few short day hikes should you suggest overnight camping. At this point, your friend should be confident that you won’t act like a jerk on the trail.
Sharing one of your favorite activities with one of your favorite people can be very rewarding. You might find that you learn something new about a friend outside the bar and under the stars.






								 HikeJennifer Davis-FlynnLife StagesTipsJennifer Davis-FlynnJennifer Davis-Flynn is a Boulder-based writer and editor with a traveling problem. When she’s not visiting far-flung locales or skiing with her husband, she’s singing jazz and speaking Russian–often at the same time.Read More


			                        	3 Comments






		 Cancel Reply









			Fill in your details below, or select an option to login:


							Login with Twitter Please wait while you are being authenticated...








	Post Comment











			Current ye@r *




			Leave this field empty

















					Have Tent, Will Travel




															May 4, 2015




				This is great advice! I recently did a camping trip for my 30th birthday and chose a pull-up campsite that had potable water, flush toilets and showers to ease my not-so-outdoorsy friends into camping. I organized all the food and activities and everyone had a great time!


					Reply











					Karam Sunato




															May 12, 2015




				Very cool. Excellent recommendations.


					Reply











					Alexandra Gabor




															July 26, 2017




				For camping I would definitely recommend a KOA for those who like their creature comforts like showers and wifi


					Reply


















            No more articles














                                © 2019 Recreational Equipment, Inc. All rights reserved. REI and the REI co-op logo are trademarks of Recreational Equipment, Inc.









































​





Process finished with exit code 0
